this video is a little bit unusual in
that i'm
really talking about something you can
do
in your own life talking to your
professors
talking to your co-workers talking to
your classmates
probably above all else in talking to
your own parents
you may have noticed that in many of my
discussions
of philosophy and politics i
shift the question being asked in a
subtle way
from talking about the validity of an
idea
to questioning what sort of person
believes in that idea what sort of
person profounds that idea
what sort of person is attracted to that
idea and why
i very rarely state explicitly that the
person speaking to me or the person
who's youtube video and criticizing
i very rarely state explicitly that's
what i'm doing but i think it's a really
important method
and it's a way of getting the people
you're talking to
to reason through the things they
believe in
as if they don't believe in them and
maybe to start
thinking rationally about aspects of
their life
that may be entirely irrational
politics is largely about
human passions human
desires the extent to which that's true
is in a word terrifying
with politics we're always dealing
with things that people want and things
that people
hate and things that people fear
and you know the academic discipline of
political science does a very good
job of creating this veneer
of rationality of taking unreasonable
things
and presenting them in reasonable terms
but when you're actually at the dinner
table with your own parents
and they're stating things to you that
are not just factually wrong
but you know that they only
believe in these things that you know to
be wrong for bad reasons
because let's just say you know your
parents well enough you know your
parents want to have a feeling for the
the motivations that lurk behind
why it is they're saying the things
they're saying why it is they believe
the things they believe
you're not just looking at the facts and
i said way isn't it interesting that in
that most
intimate setting all the textbook
discipline of philosophy and political
science
is suddenly useless and indeed
taking the ideas or the ideals your
parents believe in
and trying to put them in a balance
measure them
weigh them see what they're worth it's
only going to get your parents into a
more and more hostile and defensive
position now sometimes in politics
we deal with ideas that mean different
things to different people
that are very poorly defined even by
those who propound them
those who are most enthusiastic about
them and we deal with a lot of ideas
that have a different meaning
in different cultural contexts suppose
you met someone
who was a militant egalitarian
feminist
born and raised in south korea
south korea is a culture that's in some
ways familiar right
and in some ways quite exotic i can
already imagine
reasons to be a militant egalitarian
feminist in south korea
be very hard for someone to relate to
who grew up in
london england los angeles california or
what have you
if you're going to talk to this person
and you know you're you're maybe
interested in understanding their their
view of the world
the way to evaluate
what feminism means to them and what it
is they're trying to accomplish and so
on
is not to take this idea of feminism
that's already abstract
and then try to weigh it in the balance
it's not to say to them well you know
i'm not really sure if if feminism is
good or bad i'm not really sure feminism
is a
is a good or a bad idea right a really
productive way to approach the issue is
to talk about
their motivations in particular so to
approach the question of
why would someone choose to become
a radical feminist why did you
in south korea choose this what
attracted you to this why did why is
this your cause
why do you think of this as part of
who you really are okay
it's so simple
i think people find it very hard to do i
think people find it
very hard to set aside how they feel
about
islam very hard to set aside how they
feel about zionism
and talk to this particular person and
ask them how did you
become committed to islam how do you
become committed desires
what do you think about the motivations
of people who are
are drawn to this and once somebody is
in that more reflective
frame of mind you know you might be
surprised at the answers
you get i've had people who are muslim
i would not say devout muslim but i've
met people who are muslim
and who said to me honestly that they
find it so embarrassing
when they meet white people who were
born and raised christian and who chose
to
convert to islam at their temple they
find it so
embarrassing and these these converts
they're often much more radical and more
fundamentalist and more serious about
islam than they are themselves
and i've spoken to muslims who told me
honestly that if their parents and
grandparents hadn't pushed them into
this they
wouldn't be a part of this religion but
now that they are a part of the religion
they can see both good and bad in order
they have some kind of some kind of
balanced
you know evaluation of their position
in relation to this ideology when you're
talking about it in terms of their
in terms of their motivations and you
know if you if you talk to
a young woman who's a radical feminist
from
south korea she may likewise have have
reasons that
put a very human face on it and that you
know set out some
very attainable goals right that you can
understand what it is she's trying to
accomplish what what are the changes she
hopes to see
you know in her lifetime now
i'm very self-critical in the same way i
can look at any particular book on my
bookshelf
or any particular ideology i've been
involved with
in the past in my misspent youth and i
can also evaluate
what is it about this that that
attracted me
right and in doing so
i'm not making a judgment on the
philosophy
i'm not making a judgment on the ideal
i'm making a judgment about
who i was who who at that time i wanted
to become
and you know now also i can reflect on
who it is i really am i
uh i went to a high school with a
significant
percentage of black students i don't
think they were the majority but i don't
know 30 percent 40
we had a lot of black students my last
high school and i remember
talking to black students who were
trepidatiously
at that time taking the steps to
identify themselves as
as black radicals as black
revolutionaries
i remember one telling me in a very
halting voice she knew
she knew that i knew a lot about
communism i've been raised in a
communist household i remember her sort
of
coming out of the closet and talking
about the extent to which she considered
herself a
marxist revolutionary and so on and
again it'd be very easy to respond to
that kind of thing by shutting someone
down
and saying kind of don't you know how
terrible marxism is or don't you know
what terrible communism is don't you
know
and a much more productive way
to engage with them for yourself also so
you're going to learn something about
them you may learn more about the
ideology and what it means to be what it
means to its adherence or whatever how
you're going to learn about how they see
the ideology even if they see it in a
totally distorted way you're going to
learn about
what islam means to muslims and what
communism means to communists you're
going to learn some of that
but you can also start to engage them in
thinking
rationally about this thing in their
life they're so passionate about
that if they ever thought about it
rationally probably they haven't for
for quite a long time now one of the
viewers of the channel
sent me a link a couple days ago to a
video that was supposedly
giving you advice on how to speak to
people who were
delusional video opens it's a it's a hit
video there's over 300 thousand views
i've called uh opens with this long
definition
that this means delusional in a clinical
sense
not just somebody you disagree with or
somebody you criticizing for believing
something different from what you
believe yourself
clinical definition of delusional set
out for you again and again
that part of the video is okay
and then he shifts into his advice for
what you should actually do
when talking to someone delusional
i thought it was the worst advice in the
world he talks about the importance
of not being encouraging to the person
their delusions not just
saying to them oh yeah you you believe
this
crazy irrational thing and kind of
humoring them he talks about that being
stretched
and he also tells you not to directly
confront them
not to tell them that their delusion is
wrong because he claims
then they will just regard you as crazy
because they believe in their delusion
and if you overtrip it um
i really grew up with a father who was
delusional
and i can say that he really enjoyed
being delusional now you know in the
category of people
who are deeply delusional but still able
to
brush their teeth comb their hair and
hold down a job
i think that's a pattern you'll see
again and again
it's not so much that their delusions
are so compulsive that they have no
control over it whatsoever
because if that were true they maybe
wouldn't be brushing their teeth and
holding down a nine-to-five job
but they enjoy wallowing in
their delusions i feel like they enjoy
indulging their delusions and they enjoy
exhibiting their delusions to others
and
[Music]
you know on the other hand of course i
also have experience confronting and
dealing with
delusional people on the street on the
bus
um these people may or may not be
homeless they may not be drug addicts
but people who are delusional
and ranting to or talking to any any
stranger
in those kinds of public situations and
you know
i've several times been with other
people who didn't know what to do
when a a crazy apparently homeless
person you don't really know but
seemingly homeless person
starts ranting and i handle it really
well
in this situation i really diffuse
situation address i seem to get this
person back
in touch with reality by talking to them
and then you know we go our separate
ways but they stop disturbing everyone
else on the bus
or to the situation several times when
there are other people around
friends or colleagues of mine and they
say wow like have you studied this stuff
how do you not do that and every single
time i say no
i just grew up with these parents i grew
up handling my own parents
and i take those same skills i have
and i apply them to crazy homeless
people from the street
that's the that's the honest truth
remember a crazy guy on the bus
started ranting in a delusional way
textbook typical
delusions of grandeur uh he was talking
about how he's a multi-millionaire
and he has access to these bank accounts
and all these was obviously someone
who's poverty-stricken and probably
homeless um
and i didn't do any of the things this
video said i didn't do any of these kind
of psychological techniques
you know i looked at him straight in the
face it was very clear i wasn't scared
everyone else in the bus was terrified
of this guy everyone's looking around
people are looking down at their book or
looking down their cell phone everyone's
kind of
looking out their window and um
you know i said to him you're talking
but nobody's listening to you nobody
here wants to hear
what you're talking about do you notice
that do you notice
this guy was reading a book this guy was
do you notice that you know
who do you think you're talking to who
do you think's having a conversation
with you now
what do you think these people think of
you and your ideas i was just drawing in
again and again
the sense that there's an audience here
there's a society and that his
evaluation of himself
is not the only evaluation that matters
right
um and the next step
is maybe already be there on the first
step is to is to ask him why he's doing
this
what is motivating him to do this why
are you telling a bunch of strangers on
the bus
this secret of how you made millions of
dollars by taking it out of the out of a
bank account
why you know what kind of person
does that why are you doing what's
what's making you
tell me this right now okay i'm not
going to go through too many other
examples but obviously
part of the effect of that on the
delusional person is that i'm very
self-confident
and they can hear look i know what's
real and what's not
i'm here in reality talking to you you
seem to be in a dream
and i'm saying to you this is the real
world not a dream and you know there's a
kind of contact
between two worlds one that's more more
real than the other
um you know about the only thing
that would get my father to break out of
what i would call
you know delusional ranting and again
it's partly because he enjoys it he
enjoys
oh he's deceased now he enjoyed being
the center of attention he enjoyed
telling a story
and feeling that other people are
affirming that his story is important
again if
it's totally delusional totally insane
or what have you
um so almost any kind of response
can just affirm his ego affirm that he's
an important person telling an important
story and so
but it would stop the delusions it would
stop
the ranting if in the same way you were
just going to call in
the witnessing of other people of
society as a whole
where you you'd say to him in effect
no one else here wants to hear this
story nobody thinks you know
what you're talking about everyone can
tell that you're just making this up
everyone knows this isn't true you know
and then again the the next step
being to question his motives you know
okay
why would you want to tell me
what you just said about joseph stalin
why
why would a father say that to his son
or you know and these were not all
situations at home it could literally be
that we were out at a cocktail party
you know there are other people in the
room it's like
why would you want to say that why would
someone say that to this
group of people this kind of shocking
horrifying insane thing you just said
what would motivate you
to do that now obviously i'm saying to
you the audience now
that this was a kind of very childish
attention-seeking behavior of wanting to
be the center of attention and of being
willing to say
terrible things in order to be the
center of attention
a lot of what we describe as insanity
when it pertains to people who manage to
brush their teeth comb their hair and
keep a job
a lot of what we call insanity within
that range really is childishness
persisting into uh persisting into
adulthood
the only thing that would ever be
effective in bringing my father out of
this kind of delusional state
and putting him in touch to reality and
getting him to kind of adjust the
difference just stop
ranting just stop was in this way
kind of summoning forth the witnesses
of society and say look this is how
people see you
this is how other people hearing this
hear you
okay and then you move on to ask what
kind of person are you
what kind of person would do this what
kind of person would believe this
or make this statement whether it's
about joseph stalin or anything else
what kind of person would be propounding
this delusion
um not all believers are delusional
not all beliefs are delusional the
examples i gave earlier
talking to a south korean radical
feminist talking to someone who's a
member of the muslim faith but who
has mixed feelings about it is willing
to talk about ironical detached way
i am not saying those people are
comparable to a crazy ranting homeless
person who's lecture everyone on the bus
or to my own father who lectured
absolutely everyone
around him his whole life
especially especially his employees
because they couldn't they couldn't just
leave or tell him what hassle
um uh
however i think it is much more than
just a coincidence
that these two things that they have
this resemblance
and again i make this video
to suggest to you that this is a method
you can practice
this is a method you can practice in
your own life and you can stop yourself
this person is lecturing me or harambee
this person is sharing their delusion
with me or this person is you know
testifying to their belief to me
whatever this thing is they believe in
and maybe joseph stalin
maybe anything else you know what
instead of responding
by questioning the belief instead of
responding by questioning
whether the earth is round or the world
is flat this is someone with the
delusion
that the world is flat they understand
something like this you know
we can start to ask the question of what
kind of person
would be attracted to that belief and
why what motivates you
to tell me now that the earth is flat
what kind of person would believe that
one person be attracted to that
and even in this setting right now why
why wouldn't you keep it a secret you
know why would you why would you tell me
um there are questions of motivation
there
and i think that in the whole theater of
politics
even when we're dealing with people that
are not delusional
we're always dealing with passion being
much more powerful
than reason we're dealing with the
domain of desires
and we do ourselves a disservice to
pretend
that we're debating the facts